#This page explains how to install SASE 1.0 on your machine.     

Since we developed SASE using Java, a Java Runtime Environment must be installed. The engine also uses libraries which are included in the [http://code.google.com/p/sase-umass/downloads/list SASE package]. We have tested the SASE system on UNIX, Mac OS X and Windows(Cygwin).

=Structure of the SASE 1.0 Package=
The structure of the SASE 1.0 package is as follows.

 

|| *COPYRIGHT*  || lists the license under which this package is released.||
|| *INSTALL*        || is a quick installation guide.||
|| *bin/* || contains the complied classes. ||
|| *build/*|| contains the JAR file.||
|| *doc/* || contains the Java doc.||
|| *examples/* || contains some quick examples for you to start ||
|| *lib/* || contains the required libraries.||
|| *src/*|| contains the Java source files||
|| *tests/* || contains the queries and data files for a set of experiments ||

= Software Requirement =

 * Install the [http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/java/javase/downloads/index.html Java Runtime Environment] version 1.5.x or later

= Configuration =
If you are using Windows, please install Cygwin first, and then using the following instructions. If you are using Mac or Unix, you can directly follow the configuration steps below:

  * Unzip the package you [http://code.google.com/p/sase-umass/downloads/list downloaded]
  * Set the *SASE_HOME* environment variable to point to the folder where the unzipped files are placed.
  * Add *$SASE_HOME/build/sase.jar* to the CLASSPATH
  * Add *$SASE_HOME/lib/jeval.jar* to the CLASSPATH.
  * Add *$SASE_HOME/bin* to the PATH to access all the executables.
  

Next you can run *SASE* by these [http://code.google.com/p/sase-umass/wiki/02RunExperiments commands].

If you want to modify the source code, the *Main Class* is *edu.umass.cs.sase.UI.CommandLineUI.java*.