#.Publications of this project

= Publications =

  * Haopeng Zhang, Yanlei Diao, and Neil Immerman. *Recognizing Patterns in Streams with Imprecise Timestamps*.In Proceedings of VLDB 2010. ([http://sase-umass.googlecode.com/files/sase-vldb10.pdf pdf])

 <font size="2">Abstract:Large-scale event systems are becoming increasingly popular in  a variety of domains. Event pattern evaluation plays a key role in  monitoring applications in these domains. Existing work on pattern evaluation, however, assumes that the occurrence time of each event is known precisely and the events from various sources can be merged into a single stream with a total or partial order. We observe that in real-world applications event occurrence times are often unknown or imprecise. Therefore, we propose a temporal model that assigns a time interval to each event to represent all of its possible occurrence times and revisit pattern evaluation under this model. In particular, we propose the formal semantics of such pattern evaluation, two evaluation frameworks, and algorithms and optimizations in these frameworks. Our evaluation results using both real traces and synthetic systems show that the event-based framework always outperforms the point-based framework and with optimizations, it achieves high efficiency for a wide range of workloads tested. </font>

  * Jagrati Agrawal, Yanlei Diao, Daniel Gyllstrom, and Neil Immerman. Efficient Pattern Matching over Event Streams. In Proceedings of SIGMOD 2008. ([http://sase-umass.googlecode.com/files/sase-sigmod08.pdf pdf])
 <font size="2">Pattern matching over event streams is increasingly being employed in many areas including nancial services, RFID-based inventory management, click stream analysis, and electronic health systems. While regular expression matching is well studied, pattern matching over streams presents two new challenges: Languages for pattern matching over streams are signicantly richer than languages for regular expression matching. Furthermore, ecient evaluation of these pattern queries over streams requires new algorithms and optimizations: the conventional wisdom for stream query processing i.e., using selection-join-aggregation) is inadequate.
 In this paper, we present a formal evaluation model that offers precise semantics for this new class of queries and a query evaluation framework permitting optimizations in a principled way. We further analyze the runtime complexity of query evaluation using this model and develop a suite of techniques that improve runtime eciency by exploiting sharing in storage and processing. Our experimental results provide insights into the various factors on runtime performance and demonstrate the signicant performance gains of our sharing techniques.</font> 
  * Yanlei Diao, Neil Immerman, and Daniel Gyllstrom. SASE+: An Agile Language for Kleene Closure over Event Streams. UMass Technical Report. ([http://sase-umass.googlecode.com/files/sase-07-tech-report.pdf pdf])
  * Daniel Gyllstrom, Eugene Wu, Hee-Jin Chae, Yanlei Diao, Patrick Stahlberg, and Gordon Anderson. SASE: Complex Event Processing over Streams. In Proceedings of the Third Biennial Conference on Innovative Data Systems Research (CIDR 2007) , Asilomar, CA, January 2007. Demo proposal. ([http://sase-umass.googlecode.com/files/sase-demo-cidr2007.pdf pdf]) 
  * Eugene Wu, Yanlei Diao, and Shariq Rizvi. High-Performance Complex Event Processing over Streams. In Proceedings of SIGMOD2006, June 2006. ([http://sase-umass.googlecode.com/files/sase-sigmod2006.pdf pdf]) 